hi I want to show you how to create an
artisanal quality loaf of bread at home
bread like this look at that tender airy
inside look at that crispy crust check
it out oh and it's really easy all you
need is flour water yeast salt and thyme
start with 3 cups of all-purpose flour
you may end up adding more flour later
you want to have a teaspoon of active
dry yeast if you have instant yeast at
home you can use 1/4 teaspoon in this
recipe you want a teaspoon of salt more
if you use coarse salt such as kosher or
sea salt I'm going to mix my dry
ingredients together pretty well before
I add the water because I want to make
sure that yeast is evenly distributed
now add your cup and a half of water
you'll find that this turns out a little
different every time you do it depending
on your flour the humidity and how
careful you are about measuring what
you're going for is a loose shaggy dough
a dough that can just barely stand up on
its own I can see this is way too goopy
so I'm going to add some flour to
stiffen it up it's going to end up being
closer to three and a half cups of flour
total this time and that's fine that
looks about right cover the bowl with a
plastic bag
let it ferment at room temperature for
at least 18 hours I've got some dough
here that's been fermenting for about 20
hours let's see how it looks
grody when your dough looks like this
you're ready for the next step so now
you want to use a rubber spatula to
transfer the dough onto a heavily
floured surface I know the dough seems
alarmingly goopy but it's going to be
okay you'll see add plenty of flour to
the top of the dough as well now you're
not really kneading the dough at this
point you're just folding it over on
itself a few times to work out the air
bubbles you can also work extra flour
into your dough at this time if it's too
sticky
just get the dough to the point where it
doesn't stick to your hands and then do
your best to shape it into a ball
transfer the dough ball to a heavily
floured cloth add some more flour to the
top of the dough
cover it and let it rise for about two
hours about 20 minutes before your two
hours of rising time is up you want to
start preheating your Dutch oven to 450
degrees if you've got an enameled Dutch
oven that'll work too this dough has
been rising for two hours now
let's see how it looks as you can see
the dough is actually spread out more
than its risen upwards that's normal
this baby is ready to go into the oven
carefully now don't burn yourself and
you're so close to the end now I like to
throw a handful of course cornmeal into
the pot for added texture it's totally
optional transfer your bread dough into
the Dutch oven by whatever means
necessary I bet you can develop a more
graceful technique than what you're
seeing here like maybe simply turning
the cloth over into the pot whatever
cover and bake at 450 for 30 minutes
after baking for 30 minutes in the
covered Dutch oven you want to remove
the lid and bake for an additional 10 to
15 minutes the bread has been baking
uncovered for 10 minutes let's see how
it looks
ooh la la looks done to me I'm gonna
transfer it to a cooling rack for a few
minutes and then cut it open for you so
let's see what's so great about this
bread has a crispy crust look at the
inside it's Airy it's tender it's
elastic
did you hear that crunch and it has a
great flavor so give this method a try
experiment make it your own
and most of all enjoy and share with
others